# Transfer learning based video surveillance for abnormal activity detection

With the prolific rise in the number of surveillance cameras in both inner and out-of-door locales, there's a increasing need for an intelligent system that detects abnormal or unusual events. Surveillance of CCTV videotape recordings manually is a tiresome process where the response to a detector event must be instantaneous. Unusual exertion discovery plays an important part in surveillance. In this paper, we plan to make a system to automate the task of videotape surveillance and identify the unusual activities similar to road accident discovery, fall discovery, fire discovery, and armament discovery. The fall discovery detects colorful posture-grounded events in a typical senior monitoring operation in a home surveillance system. Fire discovery presents a simple and efficient algorithm that automatically detects the fire disaster event in the surveillance area via real-time videotape contents analysis. By observing and exercising features of fire events, a fast and exact discovery process is developed for early fire advising purposes, therefore reducing the loss caused by fire accidents. Auto crash discovery helps in recycling the surveillance videos that are being recorded and can return back directly to emergency services without any intervention. This makes it time efficient and reduces the latency in communication as every second is important to save lives during an accident. Weapon discovery is one of the ways to reduce violence.
